what if I told you that this device here
this tiny piece of metal with no moving
Parts could produce an air current
silently and it's a strong enough
current to cool a laptop you would think
it was impossible right you'd be like
this it doesn't exist there's no way
okay let me do a quick demonstration so
this technology is inside this little
box here it's right in this section here
I'm going to lay down some
smoke and you will see
it's crazy and it's silent like no sound
and the best part about this whole
technology I saw a fully functional
laptop with this inside it it was
running off of this cooling technology
and this device was built by a very big
company very well-known company they're
going to be showcasing at CS in a couple
weeks so this technology comes from a
company called ventiva they've made a
solid state cooler that is unlike
anything I've seen before but to
appreciate what's really going on here
we got to go back in time a little bit 2
years ago there was a product that made
headlines it was a product from a
company called FR and they made
something called the airjet and I chose
not to cover their Tech let me explain
why the air jet used a technology that
was like basically vibrating material so
they would take these pzo electric
membranes and they would flap them very
quickly 24,000 times a second and when
you vibrate them like that you're able
to create an air current now the
technology very neat and I did a demo
with it I I was briefed on it and I
never made a video on it because there
was one huge problem that technology at
least at the time was very energy
inefficient so just some numbers a
typical laptop fan something like this
this uses one watt of energy to produce
about 1.3 to maybe 1.5 CFM obviously it
varies basing on design and whatever but
around that right 1.3 to 1.5 for one
watt of energy the fro the air jet used
one watt of energy for
0.2 CFM very little air flow for that
type of energy so if you're using it for
laptops I mean that was the that was the
goal right that was the dream to able to
use something like that it just didn't
make sense and when I looked at the
numbers I'm like there's no way this is
ever going to be picked up by a laptop
company anytime soon and two years later
we still do not have any laptop
companies that have touched it because
Energy Efficiency also there's issues
with like vibrations and stuff when
you're flapping things at that kind of
rate there is one product that uses it
it's a desktop with unlimited power
because that plugs right up to the wall
but the whole idea of Energy Efficiency
does not work well with that airjet
product okay now since that thing was
announced I've been approached by
multiple companies saying they have oh
you know we got some new solid state
cooler they've all been that type of
tech so I've kind of been jaded to this
whole idea of a solid state cooled
laptop then two two weeks ago I hear
about there this new product being
demoed at show at CS that uses a
different kind of technology and
apparently there was like a laptop being
built with it so I'm like okay let me
see this I go to the website and it is
in fact an entirely different method of
cooling it's actually solid state
there's no moving parts and it works
through the ionization of air molecules
so they have these harmonica looking
things they call them their ionic
cooling engine and inside each one of
these they have a wire and a grill and
these act as two electrodes so when you
run a high enough voltage through that
wire it ionizes the air around it so
stuff that we breathe like oxygen
nitrogen those are now ionized they are
missing an electron and now those
ionized molecules are very reactive
they're trying to replace that missing
electron so they're attracted to the
negatively charged Grill so you got
these ionized air molecules that jump
over to that Grill and the act of that
jumping creates a little bit of wind but
then you multiply by billi ions and
trillions of air molecules that are just
doing this at the same time now you have
some real air flow it's a very crude
representation of what's going on here
but that's essentially what it is you
have air molecules that are being
ionized and then immediately deionized
and that process creates air flow it's
crazy but it works so I'm looking
through their press material it all
seems very impressive and I reach out to
them like can you show this thing to me
you you guys have like functional things
that I can see and they come up and they
show me a functional laptop the company
that built this like the company that
built this laptop like everyone knows
this company it's a very well-known
company you'll see it at CS I wish I
could show to but it's not time yet but
the technology behind it was crazy I was
I was running Prime 95 and looking at
Hardware info completely normal clock
speeds it's a powerful chip and like
there's no sound there's no moving Parts
it it's wild like think about it for a
second you're creating wind you're
creating airf flow from nothing it's
like a piece of metal and it's like
there's wind there's air flow coming out
of it it's crazy it's so freaking crazy
the more talk about this I'm like now
I'm like vocalizing my thoughts I'm like
this is nuts this is like in my mind
this is a game-changing technology that
fundamentally changes what laptops can
and I think should be and in addition to
showing me that working laptop they also
demonstrated the airf flow using a more
elegant device than the one that I
showed earlier now keep in mind that
using smoke machine like this is
visually exaggerative because smoke
particles follow fluid dynamics like
when you look at that video it might
seem like it's hair dryer air flow it's
not it's much more modest than that but
it's a lot more air flow than the air
jet and much more energy efficient at
doing it so like I said a regular laptop
fan moves around 1.5 CFM per watt the
airjet from FR their product does 0.21
CFM per watt vena's ionic Tech does
around one CFM per watt so it's not as
energy efficient as a regular laptop fan
but it's essentially silent and it's
small so this is the size of a typical
laptop fan and the larger you go the
quieter you can run it but the reason
why size is so important when it comes
to fans and stuff is that these things
dictate how you design laptops like
because these things have to be in there
to cool them for most laptops you have
to take that into consideration when you
figure out like how big of a battery is
it how big is the whole product like the
whole thing revolves around thermal
design right and that's how big they
often are now the fro airjet was quite a
bit smaller and because it was so small
I think that's why it was so exciting to
a lot of people because it's like if you
can shrink it down to this size that
changes things but Energy Efficiency
problems now the tech from ventiva is
different they can make them in custom
lengths and stuff but these little metal
components are not enough you need a
couple other things first you need some
kind of housing like in this example
here uh this is actually housing the
middle sized one that you saw previously
and this was the thing that was inside
the machine that I showed you earlier
but this little housing serves two
purposes one it serves to kind of direct
the air flow as it generates it but also
it acts as like a kind of a small
Faraday cage because that electrode wire
generates an electromagnetic field that
you have to contain using a faraday cage
type product like this uh but in
addition to the housing you also need to
have a power supply so in order to
operate this thing you need to be able
to generate a high enough voltage very
low current but a high volt voltage be
able to uh create the ionization
capabilities of that wire and this is it
here now this is an older I guess older
generation of this thing they're
actively shrinking down more and more
and supposedly have several in
development that are significantly
smaller than this but each one of these
power supplies can operate several of
those harmonica looking things these
little uh uh what they call them ionic
cooling engines and I think this one in
particular can do three but they have
other ones that can do more like five
and six whatever but the idea is that
you need one of these for several of
these cooling things that you can place
around the laptop but as you shrink that
the whole thermal solution becomes
smaller and smaller and even in its
current state like this like older
generation I have in front of me right
here this is already smaller than most
fans now there are three kind of
obstacles that I think this product has
right now so the first one is the cost
so a typical laptop fan is so cheap like
these are a dollar to $3 or for you know
what I'm saying like it's like single
digit dollars so even the most custom
Solutions out there with like finely
tuned fins and stuff like these are very
inexpensive a new solution like this
like out of the gate with low volume I
wouldn't be surprised if this is like an
extra40 or $50 cost for the
manufacturers it's like it's a lot more
than fans so I feel like when that
pricing trickles down to Consumers it's
going to be a decent step up just this
is like based on very little laptop
engineering knowledge but that's just my
thinking uh but the other thing is Ozone
so when you ionize air when especially
with oxygen molecules in our atmosphere
you have the potential to create ozone
like o03 now I spoke to them about this
because right when they demoed this I
was like wait you're ionizing air isn't
there right isn't there o03 and so they
have a solution they say that they're
using magnes dioxide as a catalyst on
the like the copper or like I guess on
the heat sink or the th area and it just
acts as a catalyst to facilitate the
conversion of that ozone back to oxygen
immediately now they've supposedly done
some testing with like UL standards and
apparently it's all good up on the up
and up and now that I'm saying this out
loud I do think that in order for that
company to have picked this thing up and
make a laptop with this it probably
passed all the certification but it's
just a thought that IE and I also did
ask them like dust and all that stuff
and they apparently have solutions for
all these things it's just all under
patents I don't they didn't explain the
details of it but a lot of that is
solved but the third and I think the
biggest obstacle with this it comes down
to static pressure so static pressure is
I guess it's the it's the ability for a
fan to continue pushing air even if
there's resistance so a typical laptop
fan these things have like I'd say like
40 to maybe 50 pascals of static
pressure so that's like the higher the
better because that means that you can
push the air through a lot of uh heat
like fins you can suck air through a lot
of like tiny holes this is okay the fro
air jet product one of its main
strengths was very high static pressure
I think that was like 1,700 way above so
that had the ability to like suck air
from really far away uh not particularly
energy efficiently but it could do it
this product here the ventiva has a
static pressure rating of 12 so
significantly lower than like the 40 or
50 of a laptop fan and because of that
there's one limitation to this one big
limitation to this so if you'll notice
from the demo unit earlier the air
intake holes are really close to the
ionic cooling engine itself and they've
done that just to minimize the amount of
resistance that the air is going to get
to be able to flow in through that
device and out and the reason why this
whole idea of like static pressure is an
issue is that when it comes to the
typical laptop design right now like
this is uh an Asus product so these this
right here this is air intake and it
sucks air in through here and then out
the back of the device the exhaust but
this this this like main intake Grill
area is not the only area that air flows
through this system like obviously the
main intake is here but even like the
device itself when you pop it open there
are little gaps all across the keyboard
and air flow goes to the keyboard and
even up top there's like a you know this
is stylistically designed but there's
air that's going through these little
grills that get exhausted out of the
back but the reason why this device is
able to suck air from all those little
tiny holes is because the static
pressure of those two fans is reasonably
high now there are even devices out
there like laptops with actually seal
off the like the intake here because
they want air to flow in a very
particular way through like other
sources and that's just the way that
laptops are designed you're you're
getting that air to flow across multiple
components before it gets exhausted but
because the static pressure of this
device is so low you lose that
capability you don't have the ability to
like suck air from really far small
holes all across the laptop before it
goes in through the ionic mechanism and
because of that I think that if you just
build a laptop using this technology
with no change to the components and
where things are placed you lose a lot
of the efficiency in order to take real
advantage of this you need to just
redesign a laptop completely with
components moved into different areas so
that you don't need to rely on strong
static pressure to be able to just make
proper use of this type of cooling
technology and I think that's why a lot
of their press material shows coolers on
different edges of the laptop but I look
at this Tech and I'm just super excited
to see what other companies do with this
technology like I I think I if I had to
bet I feel like this changes the
trajectory of laptops I really think
that this type of tech is like it feels
tangible it's real like it already is
tangible like I I saw one but it just
feels proper it doesn't feel like Vapor
Weare like I'm not saying that fr was
vaporware I feel like they had good
intentions but just like the technology
and the physics behind it with you hit a
wall like energy can't you can't beat
physics but here the physics they
already work so all right there you have
it I hope you guys look at this and
don't think I'm crazy like I'm so
excited by this I hope you guys are as
well